Add CloudWatch 101 guide (#582)
GSA-TTS/identity-handbook: _articles/cloudwatch-101.md

---
title: "CloudWatch Insights 101"
description: "Basic guide to querying against our logs with CloudWatch Insights"
layout: article
category: "Reporting"
subcategory: "CloudWatch"
toc_h_max: 4
---

## Prerequisites

You will need an AWS account and access. See [setting up aws-vault][aws-vault] for more information.

[aws-vault]: {% link _articles/platform-setting-up-aws-vault.md %}

### Getting to CloudWatch Insights

1. Log in to AWS

    ```bash
    # depending on the roles you have pick between
    aws-vault login prod-analytics
    # or

>     aws-vault login prod-power

Reviewer: maybe mention that if you log in this way (as opposed to through the console) you can't switch roles, if you need to go back and forth from prod to int?

Author: idk how those work! this is literally the only way to log in that I know!

    ```

1. Search for "CloudWatch"

    ![screenshot showing how to search for CloudWatch in the AWS Console]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/aws-cloudwatch-home.png)

1. Select "Logs Insights"

    ![screenshot showing the Logs Insights menu item in CloudWatch]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/aws-cloudwatch-logs-insights.png)

### Running a query

![screenshot of the query interface for CloudWatch Insights]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/aws-cloudwatch-query.png)

1. Make sure to select a log group. For most queries, we want **prod_/srv/idp/shared/log/events.log**. In the "Select up to 50 log groups" combobox, type in "events.log" to filter down the list and select the **prod_** one.

> 1. Set the time range. For consistency across timezones, we recommend the **UTC** timezone.

Reviewer 2: How do you feel about suggesting "absolute" date ranges (rather than "relative" date ranges)?

Author: I think for a lot a quick exploratory cases, relative date range are easy. For queries that we want to refer back to (incidents, specific A/B test runs) absolute makes more sense

The Login.gov internal UUID is logged as `properties.user_id`, so we can filter based on that.

A query for one user:

```
fields @timestamp, name, properties.event_properties.success, @message
| filter properties.user_id = 'aaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd'
| limit 10000
```

A query for multiple users:

```
fields @timestamp, name, properties.event_properties.success, @message
| filter properties.user_id in ['aaaa-bbbb-cccc-dddd', '1111-2222-3333-4444']
| limit 10000
```

## Writing Queries

The [AWS documentation for CloudWatch Insights][aws-docs] is fairly thorough. If anything is left unaswered after reading this guide, that documentation is likely to contain the answer.

### Similarity to SQL

If you've used SQL, a lot of concepts map to CloudWatch Insights queries nicely:

| SQL | CloudWatch Insights |
| --- | ------------------- |
| `SELECT` | `fields` or `display` |
| `WHERE` | `filter` |
| `GROUP BY` | `stats ... by` |
| `ORDER BY` | `sort` |
| `LIMIT` | `limit` |

### Limitations and Workarounds

#### Joins

CloudWatch Insights does not support joins

#### Max 10,000 rows

[query-cloudwatch][query-cloudwatch] script with the `--complete` option

#### Too many fields

> CloudwatchInsights gives up on parsing after there are too many fields in a blob. To work around it, export the full `@message` field and parse it externally, such as in Ruby

Reviewer 3: Nit:

```suggestion
CloudWatch Insights gives up on parsing after there are too many fields in a blob. To work around it, export the full `@message` field and parse it externally, such as in Ruby
```

#### Array iteration

Similar to [too many fields](#too-many-fields), this can be worked around by parsing externally.

Another approach is to use the [`parse`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/CWL_QuerySyntax-Parse.html) command to manually parse out a specific field

#### `count_distinct`

Briefly: **Do not use `count_distinct`, it is inaccurate**

From the [AWS documentation on `count_distinct`][count-distinct]:

> Returns the number of unique values for the field. If the field has very high cardinality (contains many unique values), the value returned by count_distinct is just an approximation.

> To work around this, consider doing post processing externally. Another option, if there are fewer than 10,000 things is to do:

Reviewer 3: We  could also point to the `query-cloudwatch` script in IdP, which has an accurate version of [`--count-distinct`](https://github.com/18F/identity-idp/blob/9394620eeee7a3f6a6d03b4f475a329d83c1f499/bin/query-cloudwatch#L249-L251)?

Author: updated in 47941653d6e127fb94a438d31f3a98b4ae2c49ea
